misc doc (#2081)
openturns/openturns: python/doc/theory/meta_modeling/enumeration_strategy.rst

Chaos basis enumeration strategies
----------------------------------

The *functional chaos* expansion allows one to obtain an explicit
representation of the random response :math:`\underline{Y}` of the
model under consideration. More precisely, the response is cast
as a converging series featuring an orthonormal basis. For
computational purpose, it is necessary though to retain a finite
number of terms by truncating the expansion. First of all, a specific
strategy for enumerating the infinite PC series has to be defined.
This is the scope of the current section.

Given an input random vector :math:`\vect{X}` with prescribed
probability density function (PDF) :math:`f_{\vect{X}}(\vect{x})`, it is

> possible to build up a *functional chaos* multivariate basis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
possible to build up a *functional chaos* multivariate polynomial basis
```

Reviewer 2: @jschueller Why is this conversation resolved? Do you disagree with the change @mbaudin47 proposed?

Reviewer 2: This holds for several of @mbaudin47's comments actually.

Author: we should not mention polynomial here

> :math:`\{\psi_{\idx},\idx \in \NM\}` by tensorization of multiple univariate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:math:`\{\psi_{\idx},\idx \in \NM\}` by tensorization of marginal univariate
```

> basis associated to each variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
polynomials associated to each marginal input variable.
```

> For that we define the multi-indices associated to the marginal degrees of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We define the multi-indices associated to the marginal degrees of the
```

> univariate basis terms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
univariate marginal polynomials:
```

.. math::

    \vect{\alpha} = (\alpha_1, \dots, \alpha_{n_X}) \in \mathbb{N}^{n_X}

The component :math:`\alpha_i` defines the marginal degree of the univariate

> basis term associated to the variable :math:`X_i`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
polynomial associated to the variable :math:`X_i`.
```

> Then, the multivariate basis term :math:`\psi_{\idx}` is defined by the product:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, the multivariate polynomial :math:`\psi_{\idx}` is defined by the product:
```

.. math::

>     \psi_{\idx} (\xi) = \pi_{\alpha_1}^{(1)}(\xi_1) \times \dots \times \pi_{\alpha_{n_X}}^{({n_X})}(\xi_{n_X}) \forall \xi \in \mathbb{R}^{n_X}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \psi_{\idx} (\xi) = \pi_{\alpha_1}^{(1)}(\xi_1) \times \dots \times \pi_{\alpha_{n_X}}^{({n_X})}(\xi_{n_X})

for any :math:`\vect{\xi} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_X}`.
```

> The total degree :math:`|{\idx}|` of the multivariate basis term :math:`\psi_{\idx}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The length :math:`|{\idx}|` of the multivariate basis term :math:`\psi_{\idx}`
```

> is the sum of the marginal degrees of the univariate basis terms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the sum of the marginal degrees of the univariate marginal polynomials:
```

.. math::

    |{\idx}| = \alpha_1 + \dots + \alpha_{n_X}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This is the 1-norm of the vector :math:`\idx`. 
When the multi-index represents the marginal degrees of a polynomial, 
the length of the multi-index is the total degree of the polynomial. 
```

> Of interest is the definition of enumeration strategies for exploring this basis,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An enumeration rule is a method to explore this basis. 
```

> i.e. of suitable *enumeration functions* :math:`\tau` from :math:`\Nset` to :math:`\NM`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is defined by an enumeration function :math:`\tau` from :math:`\Nset` to :math:`\NM`,
```

which creates a one-to-one mapping between an integer :math:`j` and a multi-index :math:`\idx`.

Mathematically speaking, it is a bijective enumeration function :math:`\tau` defined by:

.. math::

   \begin{array}{llcl}
         \tau \, : & \Nset & \longrightarrow & \NM \\

>          &  j & \longmapsto & \{\alpha_1,\dots, \alpha_M\} \, \equiv \, \{\tau_1(j),\dots,\tau_{n_X}(j)\} \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         &  j & \longmapsto & \{\alpha_1(j),\dots, \alpha_{n_X}(j)\} \\
```

>          &  j & \longmapsto & \{\alpha_1,\dots, \alpha_M\} \, \equiv \, \{\tau_1(j),\dots,\tau_{n_X}(j)\} \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         &  j & \longmapsto & \{\alpha_1,\dots, \alpha_{n_X}\} \, \equiv \, \{\tau_1(j),\dots,\tau_{n_X}(j)\} \\
```

       \end{array}

Linear enumeration strategy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A natural choice to sort the PC basis (i.e. the multi-indices :math:`\idx`) is the
lexicographical order with a constraint of increasing total degree, such that:

> .. math:: \tau(0) \, \, = \, \, \{0,\dots,0\}

Reviewer: This is a vector with round parentheses, not a set with curly braces.
```suggestion
.. math:: \vect{\alpha}(0) \, \, = \, \, (0,\dots,0)
```

> 

Reviewer: Please split the equations on lines 68 to 76 into separate equations. This will improve (i.e. create) the readability.

Author: ok, used your explanations/equations

Chaos basis enumeration strategies
----------------------------------

The *functional chaos* expansion allows one to obtain an explicit

> representation of the random response :math:`\underline{Y}` of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
representation of the random response :math:`\vect{Y}` of the
```

functions associated to each marginal input variable.

We define the multi-indices associated to the marginal degrees of the
univariate marginal functions:

.. math::

    \idx = (\alpha_1, \dots, \alpha_{n_X}) \in \mathbb{N}^{n_X}

The component :math:`\alpha_i` defines the marginal degree of the univariate
basis term associated to the variable :math:`X_i`.
For :math:`i = 1, ..., n_X`, let :math:`\pi_{\alpha_i}^{(i)}` be a univariate basis term of marginal degree :math:`\alpha_i` depending on the i-th standardized variable :math:`\xi_i`.
Then, the multivariate basis term :math:`\psi_{\idx}` is defined by the product:

.. math::

    \psi_{\idx} (\vect{\xi}) = \pi_{\alpha_1}^{(1)}(\xi_1) \times \dots \times \pi_{\alpha_{n_X}}^{({n_X})}(\xi_{n_X})

for any :math:`\vect{\xi} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_X}`.

Let us first define the *length* of any multi-index :math:`{\idx} \in {\Nset}^{n_X}` by

.. math::

    |{\idx}| = \sum_{i=1}^{n_X} \alpha_i

When the multi-index represents the marginal degrees of a polynomial, 
the length of the multi-index is the total degree of the polynomial. 

An enumeration rule is a method to explore this basis. 

> It is defined by an enumeration function :math:`\tau` from :math:`\Nset` to :math:`\NM`,

Reviewer 2: Isn't this function called \idx afterwards? This is unfortunate because it creates confusion between an element of {\Nset}^{n_X} and a function from \Nset to {\Nset}^{n_X}.

My recommendation would be to consistently use \tau for the function, and maybe write it \vect{\tau} so we understand the output has dimension >1.

Author: indeed, lets used tau

| One might also consider enumeration strategies based on an
  *anisotropic* hyperbolic norm defined by:

>   .. math:: \|\idx\|_{\vect{w},q} \, \, = \, \, \left(\sum_{i=1}^{n_X} \; w_i\; \alpha_i^q \right)^{1/q}

Reviewer: There is the same error in the definition of the hyperbolic enumeration function. 
This is at line 176 of the original file.
